We've already learned a little
about the Neo4j interface.
And we've learned how to create
a relatively simple graph with it.
In this lecture,
we're going to learn how to add
another node and an edge to the graph.
We'll also go through
the process of adding a node and
edge incorrectly to the graph.
And we'll learn how to
correct that mistake.
And finally we'll learn how to modify
an existing node's information.
Okay, so here's our network that we
created in the previous lecture.
The first modification
that we want to make,
is adding a single node to the network.
So let's say that Julian has a fiance and
her name is Joyce and
she works as a store clerk.
So let's look at the code that we're
going to use to make that modification.
So this process involves two steps or
two separate commands.
First command requires you to find the
node that you want to add the new node to.
So we use the match command and
we specify the ToyNode named Julian.
Once that command is issued then
we'll use the merge command and
define the relation between Julian and
the new node.
And it's going to be fiancee.
And then the new node
will also be a ToyNode.
And the name is Joyce, and
her job is store clerk.
So let's go ahead and
copy both these lines of code.
And we'll paste them into our command
line, and we'll run these commands.
And the results that
are returned look good.
Neo4j says that it has added 1 label,
created 1 node, set 3 properties,
created 1 relationship, and
it's required 55 milliseconds to execute.
So let's look at that network.
Maybe the easiest way to
view an existing network,
if it's the only one you're working on and
you know the constraints involved,
just ToyNodes, is to expand the panel on
the left and just click the ToyNode node.
And you'll easily see the new network.
And we can confirm that Joyce
has been successfully added, and
when we select that,
we can see that her job is store clerk.
The command that was issued automatically
by clicking the ToyNode button in
the panel Is a little different than what
we've been using to view our networks.
But they both work essentially
the same with this particular network.
So next let's see what happens if
we do something incorrectly, and
how to correct the mistake.
So to do this,
we'll need to get back to our original
network without the added node.
And maybe the easiest way to do
this is to delete everything and
recreate our original network.
So first I'm going to copy and
paste command to delete all
of the nodes and edges.
You'll find this command in the getting
started video supplementary resources.
It involves the match command and
I'm matching all nodes and
all relationships and I'm deleting
those nodes and relationships.
So let's issue that command,
which should say it's deleted 6 nodes and
6 relationships, and sure enough.
Neo4J's command line has a nice feature of
maintaining a history of the commands and
so in OSX we can use the command+up
arrow to cycle through the commands and
find the original create command
that created our network.
On Windows, it's a CTRL+up arrow command.
So here I've found that command and
I'm going to re-execute it.
And we have our original
network back again.
Let's view that network.
And there it is.
So let's say for whatever reason I am
not quite fully understanding how to add
an additional node to an existing network,
and I want to use the create command.
For example, I might be thinking that
this statement right here will
accomplish the same kind of thing.
By using the create command and
by specifying a ToyNode named Julian.
Well, if we go ahead and
give that a try let's see what happens.
So I'll copy this command and I will paste
it into my command line and execute it.
And it says it's added 2 labels and
created 2 nodes and set 4 properties.
And if we look at this, We
see we've actually got another node named
Julian who has a relationship with Joyce.
So that much is correct, but it's not
the same Julian from the original network.
So how do we undo this?
Well, we'll need to specify the Julian
that has a relationship with Joyce and
delete both the Julian and
the Joyce notes.
So here we'll use the match
command once again.
And we'll identify the node, the ToyNode,
with the name Joyce and any relationship
she has with any other node should be
deleted in addition to that other node.
Let's go ahead and copy this.
And we'll paste it into our
command line and execute.
And it says it deleted 2 nodes and
deleted 1 relationship.
Let's view our network again.
And it's back to normal.
So that's one example of how you can
intuitively figure out how to correct
certain mistakes.
Next we're going to modify
information of an existing node.
So if you remember when we first created
our network, Harry didn't have a job.
So let's go ahead and add a job to Harry.
First of all,
we'll need to actually select
the node by using the match command.
So we'll issue that here and
we'll specify that that node
name must be equal to Harry.
And then we're going to
use the set command and
specify that job will be equal to drummer.
So let's go ahead and copy that.
And we'll paste it and execute it.
And the results that are returned
says that one property has been set.
But let's say that Harry does
more than just play drums.
Let's say that he can
also play lead guitar.
So in this case we will be
adding an additional property
to a property that already exists and
we'll see how Neo4J handles that.
It's a relatively simple modification
we make, in which we're setting
the job key equal to the existing job key
+ an additional value to that key,
in this case, lead guitarist.
So let's copy that statement.
And we'll paste it and execute it.
And we get a similar result returned and
then let's look at our network.
And when we select Harry, sure enough
now we see that he has two jobs.
They're separated by a comma.
One is drummer and one is lead guitarist.
There's much more you can do with Neo4j,
but
we'll want to move on and
learn some more advanced capabilities
that work us closer towards
managing our big data challenges.